<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 12: “Jumble”</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-12" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">XII</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">“Jumble”</span>
			</h2>
			<p>William’s father carefully placed the bow and arrow at the back of the
library cupboard, then closed the cupboard door and locked it in grim
silence. William’s eyes, large, reproachful, and gloomy, followed every
movement.</p>
			<p>“Three windows and <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Clive’s cat all in one morning,” began <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown
sternly.</p>
			<p>“I didn’t <em>mean</em> to hit that cat,” said William earnestly. “I
didn’t⁠—honest. I wouldn’t go round teasin’ cats. They get so mad at
you, cats do. It jus’ got in the way. I couldn’t stop shootin’ in time.
An’ I didn’t <em>mean</em> to break those windows. I wasn’t <em>tryin’</em> to hit
them. I’ve not hit anything I was trying to hit yet,” wistfully. “I’ve
not got into it. It’s jus’ a knack. It jus’ wants practice.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown pocketed the key.</p>
			<p>“It’s a knack you aren’t likely to acquire by practice on this
instrument,” he said drily.</p>
			<p>William wandered out into the garden and looked sadly up at the garden
wall. But The Little Girl Next Door was away and could offer no
sympathy, even if he climbed up to his precarious seat on the top. Fate
was against him in every way. With a deep sigh he went out of the garden
gate and strolled down the road disconsolately, hands in pockets.</p>
			<p>Life stretched empty and uninviting before him without his bow and
arrow. And Ginger would have his bow and arrow, Henry would have his bow
and arrow, Douglas would have his bow and arrow. He, William, alone
would be a thing apart, a social outcast, a boy without a bow and arrow;
for bows and arrows were the fashion. If only one of the others would
break a window or hit a silly old cat that hadn’t the sense to keep out
of the way.</p>
			<p>He came to a stile leading into a field and took his seat upon it
dejectedly, his elbows on his knees, his chin in his hands. Life was
simply not worth living.</p>
			<p>“A rotten old cat!” he said aloud, “a rotten old cat!⁠—and didn’t even
hurt it. It⁠—it made a fuss⁠—jus’ out of spite, screamin’ and carryin’
on! And windows!⁠—as if glass wasn’t cheap enough⁠—and easy to put in. I
could⁠—I could mend ’em myself⁠—if I’d got the stuff to do it. I⁠⸺” He
stopped. Something was coming down the road. It came jauntily with a
light, dancing step, fox-terrier ears cocked, retriever nose raised,
collie tail wagging, slightly dachshund body a-quiver with the joy of
life.</p>
			<p>It stopped in front of William with a glad bark of welcome, then stood
eager, alert, friendly, a mongrel unashamed.</p>
			<p>“Rats! Fetch ’em out!” said William idly.</p>
			<p>It gave a little spring and waited, front paws apart and
crouching, a waggish eye upraised to William. William broke off a stick
from the hedge and threw it. His visitor darted after it with a shrill
bark, took it up, worried it, threw it into the air, caught it, growled
at it, finally brought it back to William and waited, panting, eager,
unmistakably grinning, begging for more.</p>
			<p>William’s drooping spirits revived. He descended from his perch and
examined its collar. It bore the one word “Jumble.”</p>
			<p>“Hey! Jumble!” he called, setting off down the road.</p>
			<p>Jumble jumped up around him, dashed off, dashed back, worried his boots,
jumped up at him again in wild, eager friendship, dashed off again,
begged for another stick, caught it, rolled over with it, growled at it,
then chewed it up and laid the remains at William’s feet.</p>
			<p>“Good ole chap!” said William encouragingly. “Good ole Jumble! Come on,
then.”</p>
			<p>Jumble came on. William walked through the village with a self-conscious
air of proud yet careless ownership, while Jumble gambolled round his
heels.</p>
			<p>Every now and then he would turn his head and whistle imperiously, to
recall his straying <i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">protégé</i> from the investigation of ditches and
roadside. It was a whistle, commanding, controlling, yet withal
careless, that William had sometimes practised privately in readiness
for the blissful day when Fate should present him with a real live dog
of his own. So far Fate, in the persons of his father and mother, had
been proof against all his pleading.</p>
			<p>William passed a blissful morning. Jumble swam in the pond, he fetched
sticks out of it, he shook himself violently all over William, he ran
after a hen, he was chased by a cat, he barked at a herd of cows, he
pulled down a curtain that was hanging out in a cottage garden to
dry⁠—he was mischievous, affectionate, humorous, utterly
irresistible⁠—and he completely adopted William. William would turn a
corner with a careless swagger and then watch breathlessly to see if the
rollicking, frisky little figure would follow, and always it came
tearing eagerly after him.</p>
			<p>William was rather late to lunch. His father and mother and elder
brother and sister were just beginning the meal. He slipped quietly and
unostentatiously into his seat. His father was reading a newspaper. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown always took two daily papers, one of which he perused at breakfast
and the other at lunch.</p>
			<p>“William,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown, “I do wish you’d be in time, and I do wish
you’d brush your hair before you come to table.”</p>
			<p>William raised a hand to perform the operation, but catching sight of
its colour, hastily lowered it.</p>
			<p>“No, Ethel dear, I didn’t know anyone had taken Lavender Cottage. An
artist? How nice! William dear, <em>do</em> sit still. Have they moved in yet?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said Ethel, “they’ve taken it furnished for two months, I think.
Oh, my goodness, just <em>look</em> at William’s hands!”</p>
			<p>William put his hands under the table and glared at her.</p>
			<p>“Go and wash your hands, dear,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown patiently.</p>
			<p>For eleven years she had filled the trying position of William’s mother.
It had taught her patience.</p>
			<p>William rose reluctantly.</p>
			<p>“They’re not dirty,” he said in a tone of righteous indignation. “Well,
anyway, they’ve been dirtier other times and you’ve said nothin’. I
can’t be <em>always</em> washin’ them, can I? Some sorts of hands get dirty
quicker than others an’ if you keep on washin’ it only makes them worse
an’⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>Ethel groaned and William’s father lowered his paper. William withdrew
quickly but with an air of dignity.</p>
			<p>“And just <em>look</em> at his boots!” said Ethel as he went. “Simply caked;
and his stockings are soaking wet⁠—you can see from here. He’s been
right <em>in</em> the pond by the look of him and⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>William heard no more. There were moments when he actively disliked
Ethel.</p>
			<p>He returned a few minutes later, shining with cleanliness, his hair
brushed back fiercely off his face.</p>
			<p>“His <em>nails</em>,” murmured Ethel as he sat down.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown, “go on telling us about the new people.
William, do hold your knife properly, dear. Yes, Ethel?”</p>
			<p>William finished his meal in silence, then brought forth his momentous
announcement.</p>
			<p>“I’ve gotter dog,” he said with an air of importance.</p>
			<p>“What sort of a dog?” and “Who gave it to you?” said Robert and Ethel
simultaneously.</p>
			<p>“No one gave it me,” he said. “I jus’ got it. It began following me this
morning an’ I couldn’t get rid of it. It wouldn’t go, anyway. It
followed me all round the village an’ it came home with me. I couldn’t
get rid of it, anyhow.”</p>
			<p>“Where is it now?” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown anxiously.</p>
			<p>“In the back garden.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown folded up his paper.</p>
			<p>“Digging up my flower-beds, I suppose,” he said with despairing
resignation.</p>
			<p>“He’s tied up all right,” William reassured him. “I tied him to the tree
in the middle of the rose-bed.”</p>
			<p>“The rose-bed!” groaned his father. “Good Lord!”</p>
			<p>“Has he had anything to eat?” demanded Robert sternly.</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said William, avoiding his mother’s eye. “I found a few bits of
old things for him in the larder.”</p>
			<p>William’s father took out his watch and rose from the table.</p>
			<p>“Well, you’d better take it to the Police Station this afternoon,” he
said shortly.</p>
			<p>“The Police Station!” repeated William hoarsely. “It’s not a <em>lost</em> dog.
It⁠—it jus’ doesn’t belong to anyone, at least it didn’t. Poor thing,”
feelingly. “It⁠—it doesn’t want <em>much</em> to make it happy. It can sleep in
my room an’ jus’ eat scraps.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown went out without answering.</p>
			<p>“You’ll have to take it, you know, William,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown, “so be
quick. You know where the Police Station is, don’t you? Shall I come
with you?”</p>
			<p>“No, thank you,” said William hastily.</p>
			<p>A few minutes later he was walking down to the Police Station followed
by the still eager Jumble, who trotted along, unconscious of his doom.</p>
			<p>Upon William’s face was a set, stern expression which cleared slightly
as he neared the Police Station. He stood at the gate and looked at
Jumble. Jumble placed his front paws ready for a game and wagged his
tail.</p>
			<p>“Well,” said William, “here you are. Here’s the Police Station.”</p>
			<p>Jumble gave a shrill bark. “Hurry up with that stick or that race,
whichever you like,” he seemed to say.</p>
			<p>“Well, go in,” said William, nodding his head in the direction of the
door.</p>
			<p>Jumble began to worry a big stone in the road. He rolled it along with
his paws, then ran after it with fierce growls.</p>
			<p>“Well, it’s the Police Station,” said William. “Go in if you want.”</p>
			<p>With that he turned on his heel and walked home, without one backward
glance. But he walked slowly, with many encouraging “Hey! Jumbles” and
many short commanding whistles. And Jumble trotted happily at his heels.
There was no one in the garden, there was no one in the hall, there was
no one on the stairs. Fate was for once on William’s side.</p>
			<p>William appeared at the tea-table well washed and brushed, wearing that
air of ostentatious virtue that those who knew him best connected with
his most daring coups.</p>
			<p>“Did you take that dog to the Police Station, William?” said William’s
father.</p>
			<p>William coughed.</p>
			<p>“Yes, father,” he said meekly with his eyes upon his plate.</p>
			<p>“What did they say about it?”</p>
			<p>“Nothing, father.”</p>
			<p>“I suppose I’d better spend the evening replanting those rose-trees,”
went on his father bitterly.</p>
			<p>“And William gave him a <em>whole</em> steak and kidney pie,” murmured <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown. “Cook will have to make another for to-morrow.”</p>
			<p>William coughed again politely, but did not raise his eyes from his
plate.</p>
			<p>“What is that noise?” said Ethel. “Listen!”</p>
			<p>They sat, listening intently. There was a dull grating sound as of the
scratching of wood.</p>
			<p>“It’s upstairs,” said Robert with the air of a Sherlock Holmes.</p>
			<p>Then came a shrill, impatient bark.</p>
			<p>“It’s a <em>dog!</em>” said the four of them simultaneously. “It’s William’s
dog.”</p>
			<p>They all turned horrified eyes upon William, who coloured slightly but
continued to eat a piece of cake with an unconvincing air of
abstraction.</p>
			<p>“I thought you said you’d taken that dog to the Police Station,
William,” said <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown sternly.</p>
			<p>“I did,” said William with decision. “I did take it to the Police
Station an’ I came home. I s’pose it must of got out an’ come home an’
gone up into my bedroom.”</p>
			<p>“Where did you leave it? In the Police Station?”</p>
			<p>“No⁠—at it⁠—jus’ at the gate.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown rose with an air of weariness.</p>
			<p>“Robert,” he said, “will you please see that that animal goes to the
Police Station this evening?”</p>
			<p>“Yes, father,” said Robert, with a vindictive glare at William.</p>
			<p>William followed him upstairs.</p>
			<p>“Beastly nuisance!” muttered Robert.</p>
			<p>Jumble, who was chewing William’s door, greeted them ecstatically.</p>
			<p>“Look!” said William bitterly. “Look at how it knows one! Nice thing to
send a dog that knows one like that to the Police Station! Mean sort of
trick!”</p>
			<p>Robert surveyed it coldly.</p>
			<p>“Rotten little mongrel!” he said from the heights of superior knowledge.</p>
			<p>“Mongrel!” said William indignantly. “There jus’ isn’t no mongrel about
<em>him</em>. Look at him! An’ he can learn tricks easy as easy. Look at him
sit up and beg. I only taught him this afternoon.”</p>
			<p>He took a biscuit out of his pocket and held it up. Jumble rose
unsteadily on to his hind legs and tumbled over backwards. He wagged his
tail and grinned, intensely amused. Robert’s expression of superiority
relaxed.</p>
			<p>“Do it again,” he said. “Not so far back. Here! Give it me. Come on,
come on, old chap! That’s it! Now stay there! Stay there! Good dog! Got
any more? Let’s try him again.”</p>
			<p>During the next twenty minutes they taught him to sit up and almost
taught him “Trust” and “Paid for.” There was certainly a charm about
Jumble. Even Robert felt it. Then Ethel’s voice came up the stairs.</p>
			<p>“Robert! Sydney Bellew’s come for you.”</p>
			<p>“Blow the wretched dog!” said the fickle Robert rising, red and
dishevelled from stooping over Jumble. “We were going to walk to
Fairfields and the beastly Police Station’s right out of our way.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll take it, Robert,” said William kindly. “I will really.”</p>
			<p>Robert eyed him suspiciously.</p>
			<p>“Yes, you took it this afternoon, didn’t you?”</p>
			<p>“I will, honest, to-night, Robert. Well, I couldn’t, could I?⁠—after all
this.”</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” said Robert darkly. “No one ever knows what <em>you</em> are
going to do!”</p>
			<p>Sydney’s voice came up.</p>
			<p>“Hurry up, old chap! We shall never have time to do it before dark, if
you aren’t quick.”</p>
			<p>“I’ll take him, honest, Robert.”</p>
			<p>Robert hesitated and was lost.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said, “you just mind you do, that’s all, or I’ll jolly well
hear about it. I’ll see <em>you</em> do too.”</p>
			<p>So William started off once more towards the Police Station with Jumble,
still blissfully happy, at his heels. William walked slowly, eyes fixed
on the ground, brows knit in deep thought. It was very rarely that
William admitted himself beaten.</p>
			<p>“Hello, William!”</p>
			<p>William looked up.</p>
			<p>Ginger stood before him holding his bow and arrows ostentatiously.</p>
			<p>“You’ve had your bow and arrow took off you!” he jeered.</p>
			<p>William fixed his eye moodily upon him for a minute, then very
gradually his eye brightened and his face cleared. William had an idea.</p>
			<p>“If I give you a dog half time,” he said slowly, “will you give me your
bow and arrows half time?”</p>
			<p>“Where’s your dog?” said Ginger suspiciously.</p>
			<p>William did not turn his head.</p>
			<p>“There’s one behind me, isn’t there,” he said anxiously. “Hey, Jumble!”</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes, he’s just come out of the ditch.”</p>
			<p>“Well,” continued William, “I’m taking him to the Police Station and I’m
just goin’ on an’ he’s following me and if you take him off me I won’t
see you ’cause I won’t turn round and jus’ take hold of his collar an’
he’s called Jumble an’ take him up to the old barn and we’ll keep him
there an’ join at him and feed him days and days about and you let me
practice on your bow and arrow. That’s fair, isn’t it?”</p>
			<p>Ginger considered thoughtfully.</p>
			<p>“All right,” he said laconically.</p>
			<p>William walked on to the Police Station without turning round.</p>
			<p>“Well?” whispered Robert sternly that evening.</p>
			<p>“I took him, Robert⁠—least⁠—I started off with him, but when I’d got
there he’d gone. I looked round and he’d jus’ gone. I couldn’t see him
anywhere, so I came home.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if he comes to this house again,” said Robert, “I’ll wring his
neck, so just you look out.” Two days later William sat in the barn on
an upturned box, chin in hands, gazing down at Jumble. A paper bag
containing Jumble’s ration for the day lay beside him. It was his day of
ownership. The collecting of Jumble’s “scraps” was a matter of infinite care
and trouble. They consisted in⁠—a piece of bread that William had
managed to slip into his pocket during breakfast, a piece of meat he had
managed to slip into his pocket during dinner, a jam puff stolen from
the larder and a bone removed from the dustbin. Ginger roamed the fields
with his bow and arrow while William revelled in the ownership of
Jumble. To-morrow William would roam the fields with bow and arrow and
Ginger would assume ownership of Jumble.</p>
			<p>William had spent the morning teaching Jumble several complicated
tricks, and adoring him more and more completely each moment. He grudged
him bitterly to Ginger, but⁠—the charm of the bow and arrow was strong.
He wished to terminate the partnership, to resign Ginger’s bow and arrow
and take the irresistible Jumble wholly to himself. He thought of the
bow and arrow in the library cupboard; he thought, planned, plotted, but
could find no way out. He did not see a man come to the door of the barn
and stand there leaning against the door-post watching him. He was a
tall man with a thin, lean face and a loose-fitting tweed suit. As his
eyes lit upon William and Jumble they narrowed suddenly and his mobile
lips curved into a slight, unconscious smile. Jumble saw him first and
went towards him wagging his tail. William looked up and scowled
ungraciously. The stranger raised his hat.</p>
			<p>“Good afternoon,” he said politely, “Do you remember what you were
thinking about just then?”</p>
			<p>William looked at him with a certain interest, speculating upon his
probable insanity. He imagined lunatics were amusing people.</p>
			<p>“Yes.”</p>
			<p>“Well, if you’ll think of it again and look just like that, I’ll give
you anything you like. It’s a rash promise, but I will.”</p>
			<p>William promptly complied. He quite forgot the presence of the strange
man, who took a little block out of his pocket and began to sketch
William’s inscrutable, brooding face.</p>
			<p>“Daddy!”</p>
			<p>The man sighed and put away his block.</p>
			<p>“You’ll do it again for me one day, won’t you, and I’ll keep my promise.
Hello!”</p>
			<p>A little girl appeared now at the barn door, dainty, dark-eyed and
exquisitely dressed. She threw a lightning flash at the occupants of the
barn.</p>
			<p>“Daddy!” she screamed. “It’s Jumble! It <em>is</em> Jumble! Oh, you horrid
dog-stealing boy!”</p>
			<p>Jumble ran to her with shrill barks of welcome, then ran back to William
to reassure him of his undying loyalty.</p>
			<p>“It <em>is</em> Jumble,” said the man. “He’s called Jumble,” he explained to
William, “because he is a jumble. He’s all sorts of a dog, you know.
This is Ninette, my daughter, and my name is Jarrow, and we’ve taken
Lavender Cottage for two months. We’re roving vagabonds. We never stay
anywhere longer than two months. So now you know all about us. Jumble
seems to have adopted you. Ninette, my dear, you are completely ousted
from Jumble’s heart. This gentleman reigns supreme.”</p>
			<p>“I <em>didn’t</em> steal him,” said William indignantly. “He just came. He
began following me. I didn’t want him to⁠—not jus’ at first anyway, not
much anyway. I suppose,” a dreadful fear came to his heart, “I suppose
you want him back?”</p>
			<p>“You can keep him for a bit if you want him, can’t he Daddy? Daddy’s
going to buy me a Pom⁠—a dear little white Pom. When we lost Jumble, I
thought I’d rather have a Pom. Jumble’s so rough and he’s not really a
<em>good</em> dog. I mean he’s no pedigree.”</p>
			<p>“Then can I keep him jus’ for a bit?” said William, his voice husky with
eagerness.</p>
			<p>“Oh, yes. I’d much rather have a quieter sort of dog. Would you like to
come and see our cottage? It’s just over here.”</p>
			<p>William, slightly bewildered but greatly relieved, set off with her. <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrow followed slowly behind. It appeared that Miss Ninette Jarrow was
rather a wonderful person. She was eleven years old. She had visited
every capital in Europe, seen the best art and heard the best music in
each. She had been to every play then on in London. She knew all the
newest dances.</p>
			<p>“Do you like Paris?” she asked William as they went towards Lavender
Cottage.</p>
			<p>“Never been there,” said William stolidly, glancing round
surreptitiously to see that Jumble was following.</p>
			<p>She shook her dark curly head from side to side⁠—a little trick she had.</p>
			<p>“You funny boy. <i lang="fr" xml:lang="fr">Mais vous parlez Français, n’est-ce pas?</i>”</p>
			<p>William disdained to answer. He whistled to Jumble, who was chasing an
imaginary rabbit in a ditch.</p>
			<p>“Can you jazz?” she asked.</p>
			<p>“I don’t know,” he said guardedly. “I’ve not tried. I expect I could.”</p>
			<p>She took a few flying graceful steps with slim black silk-encased legs.</p>
			<p>“That’s it. I’ll teach you at home. We’ll dance it to a gramophone.”</p>
			<p>William walked on in silence.</p>
			<p>She stopped suddenly under a tree and held up her little vivacious,
piquant face to him.</p>
			<p>“You can kiss me if you like,” she said.</p>
			<p>William looked at her dispassionately.</p>
			<p>“I don’t want to, thanks,” he said politely.</p>
			<p>“Oh, you <em>are</em> a funny boy!” she said with a ripple of laughter, “and
you look so rough and untidy. You’re rather like Jumble. Do you like
Jumble?”</p>
			<p>“Yes,” said William. His voice had a sudden quaver in it. His ownership
of Jumble was a thing of the past.</p>
			<p>“You can have him for always and always,” she said suddenly. “<em>Now</em> kiss
me!”</p>
			<p>He kissed her cheek awkwardly with the air of one determined to do his
duty, but with a great, glad relief at his heart.</p>
			<p>“I’d love to see you dance,” she laughed. “You <em>would</em> look funny.”</p>
			<p>She took a few more fairy steps.</p>
			<p>“You’ve seen Pavlova, haven’t you?”</p>
			<p>“Dunno.”</p>
			<p>“You must know.”</p>
			<p>“I mustn’t,” said William irritably. “I might have seen him and not
known it was him, mightn’t I?”</p>
			<p>She raced back to her father with another ripple of laughter.</p>
			<p>“He’s <em>such</em> a funny boy, Daddy, and he can’t jazz and he’s never seen
Pavlova, and he can’t talk French and I’ve given him Jumble and he
didn’t want to kiss me!”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrow fixed William with a drily quizzical smile.</p>
			<p>“Beware, young man,” he said. “She’ll try to educate you. I know her. I
warn you.”</p>
			<p>As they got to the door of Lavender Cottage he turned to William.</p>
			<p>“Now just sit and think for a minute. I’ll keep my promise.”</p>
			<p>“I do like you,” said Ninette graciously as he took his departure. “You
must come again. I’ll teach you heaps of things. I think I’d like to
marry you when we grow up. You’re so⁠—<em>restful</em>.”</p>
			<p>William came home the next afternoon to find <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrow in the armchair
in the library talking to his father.</p>
			<p>“I was just dry for a subject,” he was saying; “at my wits’ end, and
when I saw them there, I had a Heaven-sent inspiration. Ah! here he is.
Ninette wants you to come to tea to-morrow, William. Ninette’s given him
Jumble. Do you mind?” turning to <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown swallowed hard.</p>
			<p>“I’m trying not to,” he said. “He kept us all awake last night, but I
suppose we’ll get used to it.”</p>
			<p>“And I made him a rash promise,” went on <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrow, “and I’m jolly well
going to keep it if it’s humanly possible. William, what would you like
best in all the world?”</p>
			<p>William fixed his eyes unflinchingly upon his father.</p>
			<p>“I’d like my bow and arrows back out of that cupboard,” he said firmly.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Jarrow looked at William’s father beseechingly.</p>
			<p>“Don’t let me down,” he implored. “I’ll pay for all the damage.”</p>
			<p>Slowly and with a deep sigh <abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown drew a bunch of keys from his
pocket.</p>
			<p>“It means that we all go once more in hourly peril of our lives,” he
said resignedly.</p>
			<p>After tea William set off again down the road. The setting sun had
turned the sky to gold. There was a soft haze over all the countryside.
The clear bird songs filled all the air, and the hedgerows were bursting
into summer. And through it all marched William, with a slight swagger,
his bow under one arm, his arrows under the other, while at his heels
trotted Jumble, eager, playful, adoring⁠—a mongrel unashamed⁠—all sorts
of a dog. And at William’s heart was a proud, radiant happiness.</p>
			<p>There was a picture in that year’s Academy that attracted a good deal of
attention. It was of a boy sitting on an upturned box in a barn, his
elbows on his knees, his chin in his hands. He was gazing down at a
mongrel dog and in his freckled face was the solemnity and unconscious,
eager wistfulness that is the mark of youth. His untidy, unbrushed hair
stood up round his face. The mongrel was looking up, quivering,
expectant, trusting, adoring, some reflection of the boy’s eager
wistfulness showing in the eyes and cocked ears. It was called
“Friendship.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown went up to see it. She said it wasn’t really a very good
likeness of William and she wished they’d made him look a little tidier.</p>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
