<?xml version="1.0" encoding="utf-8"?>
<html xmlns="http://www.w3.org/1999/xhtml" xmlns:epub="http://www.idpf.org/2007/ops" epub:prefix="z3998: http://www.daisy.org/z3998/2012/vocab/structure/, se: https://standardebooks.org/vocab/1.0" xml:lang="en-GB">
	<head>
		<title>Chapter 7: William Joins the Band of Hope</title>
		<link href="../css/core.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
		<link href="../css/local.css" rel="stylesheet" type="text/css"/>
	</head>
	<body epub:type="bodymatter z3998:fiction">
		<section id="chapter-7" epub:type="chapter">
			<h2 epub:type="title">
				<span epub:type="z3998:roman">VII</span>
				<span epub:type="subtitle">William Joins the Band of Hope</span>
			</h2>
			<p>“William! you’ve been playing that dreadful game again!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown
despairingly.</p>
			<p>William, his suit covered with dust, his tie under one ear, his face
begrimed and his knees cut, looked at her in righteous indignation.</p>
			<p>“I haven’t. I haven’t done anything what you said I’d not to. It was
‘Lions an’ Tamers’ what you said I’d not to play. Well, I’ve not played
‘Lions an’ Tamers,’ not since you said I’d not to. I wouldn’t <em>do</em>
it⁠—not if thousands of people asked me to, not when you said I’d not
to. I⁠⸺”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown interrupted him.</p>
			<p>“Well, what <em>have</em> you been playing at?” she said wearily.</p>
			<p>“It was ‘Tigers an’ Tamers.’ ” said William. “It’s a different game
altogether. In ‘Lions an’ Tamers’ half of you is lions an’ the other
half tamers, an’ the tamers try to tame the lions an’ the lions try not
to be tamed. That’s ‘Lions an’ Tamers’. It’s all there is to it. It’s
quite a little game.”</p>
			<p>“What do you do in ‘Tigers and Tamers’?” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown suspiciously.</p>
			<p>“Well⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>William considered deeply.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he repeated lamely, “in ‘<em>Tigers</em> an’ Tamers’ half of you is
<em>tigers</em>⁠—you see⁠—and the other half⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“It’s exactly the same thing, William,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown with sudden
spirit.</p>
			<p>“I don’t see how you can call it the same thing,” said William doggedly.
“You can’t call a <em>lion</em> a <em>tiger</em>, can you? It jus’ isn’t one. They’re
in quite different cages in the Zoo. ‘<em>Tigers</em> an’ Tamers’ can’t be
’zactly the same as ‘<em>Lions</em> an’ Tamers.’ ”</p>
			<p>“Well, then,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown firmly, “you’re never to play ‘Tigers and
Tamers’ either. And now go and wash your face.”</p>
			<p>William’s righteous indignation increased.</p>
			<p>“My <em>face</em>?” he repeated as if he could hardly believe his ears. “My
<em>face</em>? I’ve washed it twice to-day. I washed it when I got up an’ I
washed it for dinner. You told me to.”</p>
			<p>“Well, just go and look at it.”</p>
			<p>William walked over to the looking-glass and surveyed his reflection
with interest. Then he passed his hands lightly over the discoloured
surface of his face, stroked his hair back and straightened his tie.
This done, he turned hopefully to his mother.</p>
			<p>“It’s no good,” she said. “You must wash your face and brush your hair
and you’d better change your suit⁠—and stockings. They’re simply covered
with dust!”</p>
			<p>William turned slowly to go from the room.</p>
			<p>“I shouldn’t think,” he said bitterly, as he went, “I shouldn’t think
there’s many houses where so much washin’ and brushin’ goes on as in
this, an’ I’m glad for their sakes.”</p>
			<p>She heard him coming downstairs ten minutes later.</p>
			<p>“William!” she called.</p>
			<p>He entered. He was transformed. His face and hair shone, he had changed
his suit. His air of righteous indignation had not diminished.</p>
			<p>“That’s better,” said his mother approvingly. “Now, William, do just sit
down here till tea-time. There’s only about ten minutes, and it’s no
good your going out. You’ll only get yourself into a mess again if you
don’t sit still.”</p>
			<p>William glanced round the drawing-room with the air of one goaded beyond
bearing.</p>
			<p>“Here?”</p>
			<p>“Well, dear⁠—just till tea-time.”</p>
			<p>“What can I do in here? There’s nothing to <em>do</em>, is there? I can’t sit
still and not <em>do</em> anything, can I?”</p>
			<p>“Oh, read a book. There are ever so many books over there you haven’t
read, and I’m sure you’d like some of them. Try one of Scott’s,” she
ended rather doubtfully.</p>
			<p>William walked across the room with an expression of intense suffering,
took out a book at random, and sat down in an attitude of aloof dignity,
holding the book upside down.</p>
			<p>It was thus that <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter found him when she was announced a
moment later.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter was a recent addition to the neighbourhood. Before
her marriage she had been one of <em>the</em> Randalls of Hertfordshire.
Everyone
on whom <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter smiled felt intensely
flattered. She was tall, and handsome, and gushing, and exquisitely
dressed. Her arrival had caused quite a sensation. Everyone agreed that
she was “charming.”</p>
			<p>On entering <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown’s drawing-room, she saw a little boy, dressed
very neatly, with a clean face and well-brushed hair, sitting quietly on
a low chair in a corner reading a book.</p>
			<p>“The little dear!” she murmured as she shook hands with <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown.</p>
			<p>William’s face darkened.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter floated over to him.</p>
			<p>“Well, my little man, and how are you?”</p>
			<p>Her little man did not answer, partly because <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter had
put a hand on his head and pressed his face against her perfumed,
befrilled bosom. His nose narrowly escaped being impaled on the thorn of
a large rose that nestled there.</p>
			<p>“I adore children,” she cooed to his mother over his head.</p>
			<p>William freed his head with a somewhat brusque movement and she took up
his book.</p>
			<p>“Scott!” she murmured. “Dear little laddie!”</p>
			<p>Seeing the expression on William’s face his mother hastily drew her
guest aside.</p>
			<p>“<em>Do</em> come and sit over here,” she said nervously. “What perfect weather
we’re having.”</p>
			<p>William walked out of the room.</p>
			<p>“You know, I’m <em>frightfully</em> interested in social work,” went on her
charming guest, “especially among children. I <em>adore</em> children! Sweet
little dear of yours! And I <em>always</em> get on with them. Of course, I get
on with most people. My personality, you know! You’ve heard perhaps that
I’ve taken over the Band of Hope here, and I’m turning it into <em>such</em> a
success. The pets! Yes, three lumps, please. Well, now, it’s here I want
you to help me. You will, dear, won’t you? You and your little mannikin.
I want to get a different class of children to join the Band of Hope.
Such a sweet name, isn’t it? It would do the village children such a lot
of good to meet with children of <em>our</em> class.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown was flattered. After all, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter was one of
<em>the</em> Randalls.</p>
			<p>“For instance,” went on the flute-like tones, “when I came in and saw
your little treasure sitting there so sweetly,” she pointed dramatically
to the chair that had lately been graced by William’s presence, “I
thought to myself, ‘Oh, I <em>must</em> get him to come.’ It’s the refining
influence of children in <em>our</em> class that the village children need.
What delicious cakes. You will lend him to me, won’t you? We meet once a
week, on Wednesday afternoons. May he come? I’ll take great care of
him.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown hesitated.</p>
			<p>“Er⁠—yes,” she said doubtfully. “But I don’t know that William is really
suited to that sort of thing. However⁠⸺”</p>
			<p>“Oh, you can’t put me off!” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter shaking a playful
bejewelled finger. “Don’t I <em>know</em> him already? I count him one of my
dearest little friends. It never takes me long to know children. I’m a
<em>born</em> child-lover.”</p>
			<p>William happened to be passing through the hall as <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter
came out of the drawing-room followed by <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown.</p>
			<p>“<em>There</em> you are!” she said. “I <em>thought</em> you’d be waiting to say
good-bye to me.”</p>
			<p>She stretched out her arm with an encircling movement, but William
stepped back and stood looking at her with a sinister frown.</p>
			<p>“I <em>have</em> so enjoyed seeing you. I hope you’ll come again,” untruthfully
stammered <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown, moving so as to block out the sight of William’s
face, but <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter was not to be checked. There are people to
whom the expression on a child’s face conveys absolutely nothing. Once
more she floated towards William.</p>
			<p>“Good-bye, Willy, dear. You’re not too old to kiss me, are you?”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown gasped.</p>
			<p>At the look of concentrated fury on William’s face, older and stronger
people than <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter would have quailed, but she only smiled
as, with another virulent glare at her, he turned on his heel and walked
away.</p>
			<p>“The sweet, shy thing!” she cooed. “I <em>love</em> them shy.”</p>
			<p><abbr>Mr.</abbr> Brown was told of the proposal.</p>
			<p>“Well,” he said slowly, “I can’t quite visualise William at a Band of
Hope meeting; but of course, if you want him to, he must go.”</p>
			<p>“You see,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown with a worried frown, “she made such a point
of it, and she really is very charming, and after all she’s rather
influential. She was one of <em>the</em> Randalls, you know. It seems silly to
offend her.”</p>
			<p>“Did William like her?”</p>
			<p>“She was sweet with him. At least⁠—she meant to be sweet,” she corrected
herself hastily, “but you know how touchy William is, and you know the
name he always hates so. I can never understand why. After all, lots of
people are called Willy.”</p>
			<p>The morning of the day of the Band of Hope meeting arrived. William came
down to breakfast with an agonised expression on his healthy
countenance. He sat down on his seat and raised his hand to his brow
with a hollow groan.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown started up in dismay.</p>
			<p>“Oh, William! What’s the matter?”</p>
			<p>“Gotter sick headache,” said William in a faint voice.</p>
			<p>“Oh, dear! I <em>am</em> sorry. You’d better go and lie down. I’m so sorry,
dear.”</p>
			<p>“I think I will go an’ lie down,” said William’s plaintive, suffering
voice. “I’ll jus’ have breakfast first.”</p>
			<p>“Oh, I wouldn’t. Not with a sick headache.”</p>
			<p>William gazed hungrily at the eggs and bacon.</p>
			<p>“I think I could eat some, mother. Jus’ a bit.”</p>
			<p>“No, I wouldn’t, dear. It will only make it worse.”</p>
			<p>Very reluctantly William returned to his room.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown visited him after breakfast.</p>
			<p>No, he was no better, but he thought he’d go for a little walk. Yes, he
still felt very sick. She suggested a strong dose of salt and water. He
might feel better if he’d been actually sick. No, he’d hate to give her
the trouble. Besides, it wasn’t <em>that</em> kind of sickness. He was most
emphatic on that point. It wasn’t <em>that</em> kind of sickness. He thought a
walk would do him good. He felt he’d like a walk.</p>
			<p>Well wrapped up and walking with little, unsteady steps, he set off down
the drive, followed by his mother’s anxious eyes.</p>
			<p>Then he crept back behind the rhododendron bushes next to the wall and
climbed in at the larder window.</p>
			<p>The cook came agitatedly to <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown half an hour later, followed by
William, pale and outraged.</p>
			<p>“ ’E’s eat nearly everything, ’m. You never saw such a thing. ’E’s eat
the cold ’am and the kidney pie, and ’e’s eat them three cold sausages
an’ ’e’s eat all that new jar of lemon cheese.”</p>
			<p>“<em>William!</em>” gasped <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown, “you <em>can’t</em> have a sick headache, if
you’ve eaten all that.”</p>
			<p>That was the end of the sick headache.</p>
			<p>He spent the rest of the morning with Henry and Douglas and Ginger.
William and Henry and Douglas and Ginger constituted a secret society
called the Outlaws. It had few aims beyond that of secrecy. William was
its acknowledged leader, and he was proud of the honour. If they
knew⁠—if they guessed. He grew hot and cold at the thought. Suppose they
saw him going⁠—or someone told them⁠—he would never hold up his head
again. He made tentative efforts to find out their plans for the
afternoon. If only he knew where they’d be⁠—he might avoid them somehow.
But he got no satisfaction.</p>
			<p>They spent the morning “rabbiting” in a wood with Henry’s fox terrier,
Chips, and William’s mongrel, Jumble. None of them saw or heard a
rabbit, but Jumble chased a butterfly and a bee, and scratched up a
molehill, and was stung by a wasp, and Chips caught a field-mouse, so
the time was not wasted.</p>
			<p>William’s interest, however, was half-hearted. He was turning over plan
after plan in his mind, all of which he finally rejected as
impracticable.</p>
			<p>He entered the dining-room for lunch rather earlier than usual. Only
Robert and Ethel, his elder brother and sister, were there. He came in
limping, his mouth set into a straight line of agony, his brows
frowning.</p>
			<p>“Hello! What’s up?” said Robert, who had not been in at breakfast and
had forgotten about the Band of Hope.</p>
			<p>“I’ve sprained my ankle,” said William weakly.</p>
			<p>“Here, sit down, old chap, and let me feel it,” said Robert
sympathetically.</p>
			<p>William sat down meekly upon a chair.</p>
			<p>“Which is it?”</p>
			<p>“Er⁠—this.”</p>
			<p>“It’s a pity you limped with the other,” said Ethel drily.</p>
			<p>That was the end of the sprained ankle.</p>
			<p>The Band of Hope meeting was to begin at three. His family received with
complete indifference his complaint of sudden agonising toothache at
half-past two, of acute rheumatism at twenty-five to three, and of a
touch of liver (William considered this a heaven-set inspiration. It was
responsible for many of his father’s absences from work) at twenty to
three. At a quarter to three he was ready in the hall.</p>
			<p>“I’m sure you’ll enjoy it, William,” said <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown soothingly. “I
expect you’ll all play games and have quite a good time.”</p>
			<p>William treated her with silent contempt.</p>
			<p>“Hey, Jumble!” he called.</p>
			<p>After all, life could never be absolutely black, as long as it held
Jumble.</p>
			<p>Jumble darted ecstatically from the kitchen regions, his mouth covered
with gravy, dropping a half-picked bone on the hall carpet as he came.</p>
			<p>“William, you can’t take a dog to a Band of Hope meeting.”</p>
			<p>“Why not?” said William, indignantly. “I don’t see why not. Dogs don’t
drink beer, do they? They’ve as much right at a Band of Hope meeting as
I have, haven’t they? There seems jus’ nothin’ anyone <em>can</em> do.”</p>
			<p>“Well, I’m sure it wouldn’t be allowed. No one takes dogs to meetings.”</p>
			<p>She held Jumble firmly by the collar, and William set off reluctantly
down the drive.</p>
			<p>“I hope you’ll enjoy it,” she called cheerfully.</p>
			<p>He turned back and looked at her.</p>
			<p>“It’s a wonder I’m not <em>dead</em>,” he said bitterly, “the things I have to
do!”</p>
			<p>He walked slowly⁠—a dejected, dismal figure. At the gate he stopped and
glanced cautiously up and down the road. There were three more figures
coming down the road, with short intervals between them. They were
Henry, Douglas and Ginger.</p>
			<p>William’s first instinct was to dart back and wait till they had
passed. Then something about their figures struck him. They also had a
dejected, dismal, hang-dog look. He waited for the first one, Henry.
Henry gave him a shamefaced glance and was going to pass him by.</p>
			<p>“You goin’ too?” said William.</p>
			<p>Henry gasped in surprise.</p>
			<p>“Did she come to <em>your</em> mother?” was his reply.</p>
			<p>He was surprised to see Ginger and Douglas behind him and Ginger was
surprised to see Douglas behind him. They walked together sheepishly in
a depressed silence to the Village Hall. Once Ginger raised a hand to
his throat.</p>
			<p>“Gotter beas’ly throat,” he complained, “I didn’t ought to be out.”</p>
			<p>“I’m ill, too,” said Henry; “I <em>told</em> ’em so.”</p>
			<p>“An’ me,” said Douglas.</p>
			<p>“An’ me,” said William with a hoarse, mirthless laugh. “Cruel sorter
thing, sendin’ us all out ill like this.”</p>
			<p>At the door of the Village Hall they halted, and William looked
longingly towards the field.</p>
			<p>“It’s no good,” said Ginger sadly, “they’d find out.”</p>
			<p>Bitter and despondent, they entered.</p>
			<p>Within sat a handful of gloomy children who, inspired solely by hopes of
the annual treat, were regular attendants at the meeting.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter came sailing down to them, her frills and scarfs
floating around her, bringing with her a strong smell of perfume.</p>
			<p>“Dear children,” she said, “welcome to our little gathering. These,” she
addressed the regular members, who turned gloomy eyes upon the Outlaws,
“these are our dear new friends. We must make them <em>so</em> happy. <em>Dear</em>
children!”</p>
			<p>She led them to seats in the front row, and taking her stand in front of
them, addressed the meeting.</p>
			<p>“Now, girlies dear and laddies dear, what do I expect you to be at these
meetings?”</p>
			<p>And in answer came a bored monotonous chant:</p>
			<p>“Respectful and reposeful.”</p>
			<p>“I have a name, children dear.”</p>
			<p>“Respectful and reposeful, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter.”</p>
			<p>“That’s it, children dear. Respectful and reposeful. Now, our little new
friends, what do I expect you to be?”</p>
			<p>No answer.</p>
			<p>The Outlaws sat horrified, outraged, shamed.</p>
			<p>“You’re <em>such</em> shy darlings, aren’t you?” she said, stretching out an
arm.</p>
			<p>William retreated hastily, and Ginger’s face was pressed hard against a
diamond brooch.</p>
			<p>“You won’t be shy with us long, I’m sure. We’re <em>so</em> happy here. Happy
and good. Now, children dear, what is it we must be?”</p>
			<p>Again the bored monotonous chant:</p>
			<p>“Happy and good, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter.”</p>
			<p>“That’s it. Now, darlings, in the front row, you tell me. Willy, pet,
you begin. What is it we must be?”</p>
			<p>At that moment William was nearer committing murder than at any other
time in his life. He caught a gleam in Henry’s eye. Henry would
remember. William choked but made no answer.</p>
			<p>“You tell me then, Harry boy.”</p>
			<p>Henry went purple and William’s spirits rose.</p>
			<p>“Ah, you won’t be so shy next week, will they, children dear?”</p>
			<p>“No, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter,” came the prompt, listless response.</p>
			<p>“Now, we’ll begin with one of our dear little songs. Give out the
books.” She seated herself at the piano. “Number five, ‘Sparkling
Water.’ Collect your thoughts, children dear. Are you ready?”</p>
			<p>She struck the opening chords.</p>
			<p>The Outlaws, though provided with books, did not join in. They had no
objection to water as a beverage. They merely objected to singing about
it.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter rose from the piano.</p>
			<p>“Now, we’ll play one of our games, children dear. You can begin by
yourselves, can’t you, darlings? I’ll just go across the field and see
why little Teddy Wheeler hasn’t come. He must be <em>regular</em>, mustn’t he,
laddies dear? Now, what game shall we play. We had ‘Puss in the Corner’
last week, hadn’t we? We’ll have ‘Here we go round the mulberry-bush’
this week, shall we? No, not ‘Blind Man’s Buff,’ darling. It’s a horrid,
rough game. Now, while I’m gone, see if you can make these four shy
darlings more at home, will you? And play quietly. Now before I go tell
me four things that you must be?”</p>
			<p>“Respectful and reposeful and happy and good, <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter,” came
the chant.</p>
			<p>She was away about a quarter of an hour. When she returned the game was
in full swing, but it was not “Here we go round the
mulberry-bush.” There was a screaming, struggling crowd of children in
the Village Hall. Benches were overturned and several chairs broken.
With yells and whoops, and blows and struggles, the Tamers tried to
tame; with growls and snarls and bites and struggles the animals tried
not to be tamed. Gone was all listlessness and all boredom. And William,
his tie hanging in shreds, his coat torn, his head cut, and his voice
hoarse, led the fray as a Tamer.</p>
			<p>“Come on, you!”</p>
			<p>“I’ll get you!”</p>
			<p>“Gr-r-r-r-r!”</p>
			<p>“Go it, men! Catch ’em, beat ’em, knife ’em, kill ’em.”</p>
			<p>The spirited roarings and bellowing of the animals was almost
blood-curdling.</p>
			<p>Above it all <abbr>Mrs.</abbr> de Vere Carter coaxed and expostulated and wrung her
hands.</p>
			<p>“Respectful and reposeful,” “happy and good,” “laddies dear,” and
“Willy” floated unheeded over the tide of battle.</p>
			<p>Then somebody (reports afterwards differed as to who it was) rushed out
of the door into the field and there the battle was fought to a finish.
From there the Band of Hope (undismissed) reluctantly separated to its
various homes, battered and bruised, but blissfully happy.</p>
			<p><abbr>Mrs.</abbr> Brown was anxiously awaiting William’s return.</p>
			<p>When she saw him she gasped and sat down weakly on a hall chair.</p>
			<p>“William!”</p>
			<p>“I’ve not,” said William quickly, looking at her out of a fast-closing
eye, “I’ve not been playing at either of them⁠—not those what you said
I’d not to.”</p>
			<p>“Then⁠—what⁠⸺?”</p>
			<p>“It was⁠—it was⁠—‘Tamers an’ Crocerdiles,’ an’ we played it at the Band
of Hope!”</p>
			<hr/>
			<p/>
		</section>
	</body>
</html>
